<h1> German Fashion Today</h1>
<hr>
<p>Germany is a leading country in the fashion industry, along with France, Italy, the United States, the United Kingdom and Japan. German fashion is known for its elegant lines, unconventional young designs, and manufacturers of sports and outdoor clothing.<,p>
<p>Berlin is the center of young and creative fashion in Germany, prominently displayed at Berlin Fashion Week.Düsseldorf is an important fashion trade center with Igedo. Other important centers of the scene are Munich, Hamburg and Cologne.Smaller places are also important design and production hubs of the German fashion industry, such as Herford, Metzingen, Herzogenaurach, Schorndorf, Chemnitz, Albstadt and Detmold.</p>
<p>In around 1,300 companies with more than 130,000 employees, a revenue of 28 billion Euro is generated by the German textile industry. Almost 44 percent of the products are exported. The textile branch thus is the second largest producer of consumer goods in Germany, after food production.</p>
  <h3>Brands</h3>
<p>Famous fashion brands include BOSS, Adidas, PUMA, Escada, JOOP!, MCM, Bruno Banani, Jil Sander, Triumph, Schiesser, Closed, Reusch, Valisere, Jack Wolfskin, Ulla Popken, Buffalo, Rohde, Marc O'Polo, Tom Tailor, s.Oliver, Esprit, Wunderkind, Seidensticker, Windsor., Jaques Britt, Naketano.

There are also various agencies hosting multiple German brands and designers at once, such as zLabels Berlin.[8] Also the big department stores like Kaufhof and Karstadt, retail chains like Peek & Cloppenburg, Ulla Popken and NewYorker or mail order and online shops like Otto and Zalando have various in-house fashion brands.</p>
<p> The Bread & Butter in Berlin is a leading trade fair for street fashion and ready-to-wear trends, twice annually during Berlin Fashion Week.The Igedo fair Collection Premiére Düsseldorf in Düsseldorf (CPD) was the world's dominating fashion fair for years.</p>


<p> Renowned fashion designers from Germany are e.g. Karl Lagerfeld, Hugo Boss, Wolfgang Joop, Jil Sander, Michael Michalsky, Etienne Aigner, Tomas Maier, Robert Geller, Philipp Plein, Rudolph Moshammer, Torsten Amft, Uli Herzner, Gabriele Strehle, Christoph Tisch, Willy Bogner, Rudolf and Adi Dassler.</p>
<p>mportant fashion media of Germany include the German Vogue, Elle, InStyle, Cosmopolitan, Vanity Fair, Jolie, Glamour, Grazia, Life&Style and Sleek magazines. The German fashion magazine with the longest continued tradition is Burda Style, that was first published by Aenne Burda in 1950, who also established the major Bauer Media Group. Also various general women magazines and tabloids like Joy, Brigitte, Petra, Gala and Bunte are influential in regards to fashion perception.</p>
<p>As for television, FashionTV can be received via cable or satellite. Various casting shows reach a large audience in Germany, including Germany's Next Topmodel by Heidi Klum. Also on ProSieben, the series Fashion Hero starring Claudia Schiffer was looking for fashion design talents. The Shopping Queen format at VOX stars designer Guido Maria Kretschmer, it provides five contestants with 500 EUR to buy them a fashion outfit and styling in four hours, to compete with each other.</p>
